DI (#44)
wearetriple/dotnet-defaults: Patterns/DependencyInjection.md

# Dependency Injection

> Dependency Injection (DI) forms the basis of most of the applications build within Triple. It removes the burden of knowing how to construct and new-up dependencies and allows classes to simply ask for stuff and get it from the DI container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependency Injection (DI) forms the basis of most applications built within Triple. 
It allows classes to specify what other objects they need (their dependencies) in their constructor signature, which will then be provided by the DI container.
This moves the burden of knowing how to compose them out of the class itself. 
```

- Transient: This is for services that do not have state and depend on other objects for getting or setting data.

- Scoped: This is for services that do have some state, and that state is scoped to the request (in the case of ASP.NET Core). `DbContext`s are usually scoped. 

- Singleton: This is for services that have some inner state that is not specific to a user, or are costly to construct and don't really change much during the lifetime of the application.

#### Important

- Don't inject everything as a Singleton because that will save allocations. .NET applications have a garbage collector that allocates quickly and web applications often do have hefty garbage collection runs. It's way more painful to downgrade a Singleton service to a Scoped service and find all the nasty bugs that causes than to just create a new object per request or per use.
- Don't register a service as Scoped because it depends on a service that is Scoped. If it does not have internal state, register it as Transient.
- Do register a service using its interface.

> ### Service factories

Reviewer 2: Personally, I don't understand this part.

Author: @Nuss9 I've reworked it a bit, can you see if it makes more sense?

- Don't register a service as Scoped because it depends on a service that is Scoped. If it does not have internal state, register it as Transient.
- Register a service using its interface.

### Service factories

Some services cannot be constructed easily. This could be because it requires some data that cannot be resolved easily or requires data that cannot be registered in the DI container (like a `string`). The DI container can help with building these services as it allows for running a function every time the service is requested from the DI container. Because the depending service can just request `IHardToConstructService` and not care how the instance was constructed, this solution is invisible for the users of `IHardToConstructService`, so there is no need for a `IHardToConstructServiceFactory` which leaks the fact that `IHardToConstructService` is hard to construct.

> 

Reviewer 2: _This could be because it requires some data that cannot be resolved easily or requires data that cannot be registered in the DI container (like a `string`)._  

>

This could be because they need to be constructed dynamically based on certain input, or require data which is hard to register in the DI container (like a 'string').

Reviewer 2: _The DI container can help with building these services as it allows for running a function every time the service is requested from the DI container. Because the depending service can..._ 

> 

That function you speak of, what is that? For I expected you'd continue on this in the following sentence.
Since I expected you to continue on this function, I'd start not start the next sentence with '_Because_', because this creates a relation to the previous sentence. Better to start fresh with '_The depending service can..._'.

Example:

```c#
// in startup.cs
services.AddTransient<IHardToConstructService>((serviceProvider) => 
{

>     // do some custom logic before creating an instance of HardToBuild

Reviewer 2: Maybe change to: Get the dynamic variable required for constructing the instance of HardToBuild

Reviewer 2: And use something like `var accountType = User.GetAccountType()`

services.AddTransient(typeof(IRepository<>), typeof(Repository<>));
```

> ### Registering `internal` services

Reviewer 2: Good section!

> When building class libraries it is a good practice to shield library specific details away from other projects by marking some classes as `internal`. A service in `Contoso.Services` just needs `IRepository<SomeEntity>` from `Contoso.Repositories` and should not be able to touch `SomeEntityRepositoryImplementation`. But when registering that repository in the DI container `Contoso.API` a developer can no longer do `services.AddScoped<IRepository<SomeEntity>, SomeEntityRepositoryImplementation>()` as `Contoso.API` cannot access the internals of `Contoso.Repositories`. To solve this, every class library should have a `DependencyConfiguration.cs` file at the root of its project, containing something like this:

Reviewer 2: The part "..to **shield** library specific details **away**..." could be better formulated by changing it to:
"..to use [access modifiers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/access-modifiers) on library specific details to control their visibility to other projects.".

>> I'd use the terms access modifier here to indicate whether these classes can be used from other assemblies, instead of using 'shield away'.
